The boy slept well in the woodland nest where he had laid himself down, in that kind of thin
but refreshing sleep which people have when they begin to lie out of doors. At first he only
dipped below the surface of sleep, and skimmed along like a salmon in shallow water, so
close to the surface that he fancied himself in air. He thought himself awake when he was
already asleep. He saw the stars above his face, whirling on their silent and sleepless axis,
and the leaves of the trees rustling against them, and he heard small changes in the grass.
These little noises of footsteps and soft-fringed wing-beats and stealthy bellies drawn over
the grass blades or rattling against the bracken at first frightened or interested him, so that he
moved to see what they were (but never saw), then soothed him, so that he no longer cared to
see what they were but trusted them to be themselves, and finally left him altogether as he
swam down deeper and deeper, nuzzling into the scented turf, into the warm ground, into the
unending waters under the earth.

It had been difficult to go to sleep in the bright summer moonlight, but once he was there it
was not difficult to stay. The sun came early, causing him to turn over in protest, but in going
to sleep he had learned to vanquish light, and now the light could not rewake him. It was nine
o'clock, five hours after daylight, before he rolled over, opened his eyes, and was awake at
once. He was hungry.

The Wart had heard about people who lived on berries, but this did not seem practical at the
moment, because it was July, and there were none. He found two wild strawberries and ate
them greedily. They tasted nicer than anything, so that he wished there were more. Then he
wished it was April, so that he could find some birds' eggs and eat those, or that he had not
lost his goshawk Cully, so that the hawk could catch him a rabbit which he would cook by

rubbing two sticks together like the base Indian. But he had lost Cully, or he would not have
lost himself, and probably the sticks would not have lighted in any case. He decided that he
could not have gone more than three or four miles from home, and that the best thing he
could do would be to sit still and listen. Then he might hear the noise of the haymakers, if he
were lucky with the wind, and he could hearken his way to the castle by that

What he did hear was a faint clanking noise, which made him think that King Pellinore must
be after the Questing Beast again, close by. Only the noise was so regular and single in
intention that it made him think of King Pellinore doing some special action, with great
patience and concentration--trying to scratch his back without taking off his armour, for
instance. He went toward the noise.

There was a clearing in the forest, and in this clearing there was a snug cottage built of stone.
It was a cottage, although the Wart could not notice this at the time, which was divided into
two bits. The main bit was the hall or every-purpose room, which was high because it
extended from floor to roof, and this room had a fire on the floor whose smoke came out
eventually from a hole in the thatch of the roof. The other half of the cottage was divided into
two rooms by a horizontal floor which made the top half into a bedroom and study, while the
bottom half served for a larder, storeroom, stable and barn. A white donkey lived in this
downstairs room, and a ladder led to the one upstairs.

There was a well in front of the cottage, and the metallic noise which the Wart had heard was
caused by a very old gentleman who was drawing water out of it by means of a handle and
chain.

Clank, clank, clank, went the chain, until the bucket hit the lip of the well, and "Drat the
whole thing!" said the old gentleman. "You would think that after all these years of study you
could do better for yourself than a by-our-lady well with a by-our-lady bucket, whatever the
by-our-lady cost.

"By this and by that," added the old gentleman, heaving his bucket out of the well with a
malevolent glance, "why can't they get us the electric light and company's water?"

He was dressed in a flowing gown with fur tippets which had the signs of the zodiac
embroidered over it, with various cabalistic signs, such as triangles with eyes in them, queer
crosses, leaves of trees, bones of birds and animals, and a planetarium whose stars shone like
bits of looking-glass with the sun on them. He had a pointed hat like a dunce's cap, or like the
headgear worn by ladies of that time, except that the ladies were accustomed to have a bit of
veil floating from the top of it. He also had a wand of lignum vitae, which he had laid down
in the grass beside him, and a pair of horn-rimmed spectacles like those of King Pellinore.
They were unusual spectacles, being without ear pieces, but shaped rather like scissors or like
the antennae of the tarantula wasp.

"Excuse me, sir," said the Wart, "but can you tell me the way to Sir Ector's castle, if you don't
mind?"

The aged gentleman put down his bucket and looked at him.

"Your name would be the Wart."

"Yes, sir, please, sir."

"My name," said the old man, "is Merlyn."

"How do you do?"

"How do."

When these formalities had been concluded, the Wart had leisure to look at him more closely.
The magician was staring at him with a kind of unwinking and benevolent curiosity which
made him feel that it would not be at all rude to stare back, no ruder than it would be to stare
at one of his guardian's cows who happened to be thinking about his personality as she leaned
her head over a gate.

Merlyn had a long white beard and long white moustaches which hung down on either side of
it. Close inspecpection showed that he was far from clean. It was not that he had dirty
fingernails, or anything like that, but some large bird seemed to have been nesting in his hair.
The Wart was familiar with the nests of Spar-hark and Gos, the crazy conglomerations of
sticks and oddments which had been taken over from squirrels or crows, and he knew how
the twigs and the tree foot were splashed with white mutes, old bones, muddy feathers and
castings. This was the impression which he got from Merlyn. The old man was streaked with
droppings over his shoulders, among the stars and triangles of his gown, and a large spider
was slowly lowering itself from the tip of his hat, as he gazed and slowly blinked at the little
boy in front of him. He had a worried expression, as though he were trying to remember
some name which began with Chol but which was pronounced in quite a different way,
possibly Menzies or was it Dalziel? His mild blue eyes, very big and round under the
tarantula spectacles, gradually filmed and clouded over as he gazed at the boy, and then he
turned his head away with a resigned expression, as though it was all too much for him after
all.

"Do you like peaches?"

"Very much indeed," said the Wart, and his mouth began to water so that it was full of sweet,
soft liquid.

"They are scarcely in season," said the old man reprovingly, and he walked off in the
direction of the cottage.

The Wart followed after, since this was the simplest thing to do, and offered to carry the
bucket (which seemed to please Merlyn, who gave it to him) and waited while he counted the
keys--while he muttered and mislaid them and dropped them in the grass. Finally, when they
had got their way into the black and white home with as much trouble as if they were
burgling it, he climbed up the ladder after his host and found himself in the upstairs room.

It was the most marvellous room that he had ever been in.

There was a real corkindrill hanging from the rafters, very life-like and horrible with glass
eyes and scaly tail stretched out behind it. When its master came into the room it winked one
eye in salutation, although it was stuffed. There were thousands of brown books in leather
bindings, some chained to the book-shelves and others propped against each other as if they

had had too much to drink and did not really trust themselves. These gave out a smell of must
and solid brownness which was most secure. Then there were stuffed birds, popinjays, and
maggot-pies and kingfishers, and peacocks with all their feathers but two, and tiny birds like
beetles, and a reputed phoenix which smelt of incense and cinnamon. It could not have been a
real phoenix, because there is only one of these at a time. Over by the mantelpiece there was
a fox's mask, with GRAFTON, BUCKINGHAM TO DAVENTRY, 2 HRS 20 MINS written
under it, and also a forty-pound salmon with AWE, 43 MIN., BULLDOG written under it,
and a very life-like basilisk with CROWHURST OTTER HOUNDS in Roman print. There
were several boars' tusks and the claws of tigers and libbards mounted in symmetrical
patterns, and a big head of Ovis Poli, six live grass snakes in a kind of aquarium, some nests
of the solitary wasp nicely set up in a glass cylinder, an ordinary beehive whose inhabitants
went in and out of the window unmolested, two young hedgehogs in cotton wool, a pair of
badgers which immediately began to cry Yik-Yik-Yik-Yik in loud voices as soon as the
magician appeared, twenty boxes which contained stick caterpillars and sixths of the puss-
moth, and even an oleander that was worth sixpence--all feeding on the appropriate leaves--
a guncase with all sorts of weapons which would not be invented for half a thousand years, a
rod-box ditto, a chest of drawers full of salmon flies which had been tied by Merlyn himself,
another chest whose drawers were labelled Mandragora, Mandrake, and Old Man's Beard,
etc., a bunch of turkey feathers and goose-quills for making pens, an astrolabe, twelve pairs
of boots, a dozen purse-nets, three dozen rabbit wires, twelve corkscrews, some ants' nests
between two glass plates, ink-bottles of every possible colour from red to violet, darning-
needles, a gold medal for being the best scholar at Winchester, four or five recorders, a nest
of field mice all alive-o, two skulls, plenty of cut glass, Venetian glass, Bristol glass and a
bottle of Mastic varnish, some satsuma china and some cloisonne", the fourteenth edition of
the Encyclopaedia Britannica (marred as it was by the sensationalism of the popular plates),
two paint-boxes (one oil, one water-colour), three globes of the known geographical world, a
few fossils, the stuffed head of a cameleopard, six pismires, some glass retorts with
cauldrons, bunsen burners, etc., and a complete set of cigarette cards depicting wild fowl by
Peter Scott.

Merlyn took off his pointed hat when he came into this chamber, because it was too high for
the roof, and immediately there was a scamper in one of the dark corners and a flap of soft
wings, and a tawny owl was sitting on the black skull-cap which protected the top of his
head.

"Oh, what a lovely owl!" cried the Wart.

But when he went up to it and held out his hand, the owl grew half as tall again, stood up as
stiff as a poker, closed its eyes so that there was only the smallest slit to peep through--as
you are in the habit of doing when told to shut your eyes at hide-and-seek--and said in a
doubtful voice:

"There is no owl."

Then it shut its eyes entirely and looked the other way.

"It is only a boy," said Merlyn.

"There is no boy," said the owl hopefully, without turning round.

The Wart was so startled by finding that the owl could talk that he forgot his manners and
came closer still. At this the bird became so nervous that it made a mess on Merlyn's head--
the whole room was quite white with droppings--and flew off to perch on the farthest tip of
the corkindrill's tail, out of reach.

"We see so little company," explained the magician, wiping his head with half a worn-out
pair of pyjamas which he kept for that purpose, "that Archimedes is a little shy of strangers.
Come, Archimedes, I want you to meet a friend of mine called Wart."

Here he held out his hand to the owl, who came waddling like a goose along the corkindrill's
back--he waddled with this rolling gait so as to keep his tail from being damaged--and
hopped down to Merlyn's finger with every sign of reluctance.

"Hold out your finger and put it behind his legs. No, lift it up under his train."

When the Wart had done this, Merlyn moved the owl gently backward, so that the boy's
finger pressed against its legs from behind, and it either had to step back on the finger or get
pushed off its balance altogether. It stepped back. The Wart stood there delighted, while the
furry feet held tight on his finger and the sharp claws prickled his skin.

"Say how d'you do properly," said Merlyn.

"I will not," said Archimedes, looking the other way and holding tight.

"Oh, he is lovely," said the Wart again. "Have you had him long?"

"Archimedes has stayed with me since he was small, indeed since he had a tiny head like a
chicken's."

"I wish he would talk to me."

"Perhaps if you were to give him this mouse here, politely, he might learn to know you
better."

Merlyn took a dead mouse out of his skull-cap--"I always keep them there, and worms too,
for fishing. I find it most convenient"--and handed it to the Wart, who held it out rather
gingerly toward Archimedes. The nutty curved beak looked as it if were capable of doing
damage, but Archimedes looked closely at the mouse, blinked at the Wart, moved nearer on
the finger, closed his eyes and leaned forward. He stood there with closed eyes and an
expression of rapture on his face, as if he were saying Grace, and then, with the absurdest
sideways nibble, took the morsel so gently that he would not have broken a soap bubble. He
remained leaning forward with closed eyes, with the mouse suspended from his beak, as if he
were not sure what to do with it. Then he lifted his right foot--he was right-handed, though
people say only men are--and took hold of the mouse. He held it up like a boy holding a
stick of rock or a constable with his truncheon, looked at it, nibbled its tail. He turned it round
so that it was head first, for the Wart had offered it the wrong way round, and gave one gulp.
He looked round at the company with the tail hanging out of the corner of his mouth--as
much as to say, "I wish you would not all stare at me so"--turned his head away, politely
swallowed the tail, scratched his sailor's beard with his left toe, and began to ruffle out his
feathers.

"Let him alone," said Merlyn. "Perhaps he does not want to be friends with you until he
knows what you are like. With owls, it is never easy-come and easy-go."

"Perhaps he will sit on my shoulder," said the Wart, and with that he instinctively lowered his
hand, so that the owl, who liked to be as high as possible, ran up the slope and stood shyly
beside his ear.

"Now breakfast," said Merlyn.

The Wart saw that the most perfect breakfast was laid out neatly for two, on a table before the
window. There were peaches. There were also melons, strawberries and cream, rusks, brown
trout piping hot, grilled perch which were much nicer, chicken devilled enough to burn one's
mouth out, kidneys and mushrooms on toast, fricassee, curry, and a choice of boiling coffee
or best chocolate made with cream in large cups.

"Have some mustard," said the magician, when they had got to the kidneys.

The mustard-pot got up and walked over to his plate on thin silver legs that waddled like the
owl's. Then it uncurled its handles and one handle lifted its lid with exaggerated courtesy
while the other helped him to a generous spoonful.

"Oh, I love the mustard-pot!" cried the Wart. "Whereever did you get it?'

At this the pot beamed all over its face and began to strut a bit, but Merlyn rapped it on the
head with a teaspoon, so that it sat down and shut up at once.

"It is not a bad pot," he said grudgingly. "Only it is inclined to give itself airs."

The Wart was so much impressed by the kindness of the old man, and particularly by the
lovely things which he possessed, that he hardly liked to ask him personal questions. It
seemed politer to sit still and to speak when he was spoken to. But Merlyn did not speak
much, and when he did speak it was never in questions, so that the Wart had little opportunity
for conversation. At last his curiosity got the better of him, and he asked something which
had been puzzling him for some time.

"Would you mind if I ask you a question?"

"It is what I am for."

"How did you know to set breakfast for two?"

The old gentleman leaned back in his chair and lighted an enormous meerschaum pipe--
Good gracious, he breathes fire, thought the Wart, who had never heard of tobacco--before
he was ready to reply. Then he looked puzzled, took off his skull-cap--three mice fell out--
and scratched in the middle of his bald head.

"Have you ever tried to draw in a looking-glass?" he asked.

"I don't think I have."

"Looking-glass," said Merlyn, holding out his hand. Immediately there was a tiny lady's
vanity-glass in his hand.

"Not that kind, you fool," he said angrily. "I want one big enough to shave in."

The vanity-glass vanished, and in its place there was a shaving mirror about a foot square. He
then demanded pencil and paper in quick succession; got an unsharpened pencil and the
Morning Post; sent them back; got a fountain pen with no ink in it and six reams of brown
paper suitable for parcels; sent them back; flew into a passion in which he said by-our-Lady
quite often, and ended up with a carbon pencil and some cigarette papers which he said
would have to do.

He put one of the papers in front of the glass and made five dots.

"Now," he said, " I want you to join those five dots up to make a W, looking only in the
glass."

The Wart took the pen and tried to do as he was bid.

"Well, it is not bad," said the magician doubtfully, "and in a way it does look a bit like an M."

Then he fell into a reverie, stroking his beard, breathing fire, and staring at the paper.

"About the breakfast?"

"Ah, yes. How did I know to set breakfast for two? That was why I showed you the looking-
glass. Now ordinary people are born forwards in Time, if you understand what I mean, and
nearly everything in the world goes forward too. This makes it quite easy for the ordinary
people to live, just as it would be easy to join those five dots into a W if you were allowed to
look at them forwards, instead of backwards and inside out. But I unfortunately was born at
the wrong end of time, and I have to live backwards from in front, while surrounded by a lot
of people living forwards from behind. Some people call it having second sight."

He stopped talking and looked at the Wart in an anxious way.

"Have I told you this before?" "No, we only met about half an hour ago." "So little time to
pass?" said Merlyn, and a big tear ran down to the end of his nose. He wiped it off with his
pyjamas and added anxiously, "Am I going to tell it you again?" "I do not know," said the
Wart, "unless you have not finished telling me yet."

"You see, one gets confused with Time, when it is like that. All one's tenses get muddled, for
one thing. If you know what is going to happen to people, and not what has happened to
them, it makes it difficult to prevent it happening, if you don't want it to have happened, if
you see what I mean? Like drawing in a mirror."

The Wart did not quite see, but was just going to say that he was sorry for Merlyn if these
things made him unhappy, when he felt a curious sensation at his ear. "Don't jump," said the
old man, just as he was going to do so, and the Wart sat still. Archimedes, who had been
standing forgotten on his shoulder all this time, was gently touching himself against him. His

beak was right against the lobe of the ear, which its bristles made to tickle, and suddenly a
soft hoarse voice whispered, "How d'you do," so that it sounded right inside his head.

"Oh, owl!" cried the Wart, forgetting about Merlyn's troubles instantly. "Look, he has decided
to talk to me I"

The Wart gently leaned his head against the smooth feathers, and the tawny owl, taking the
rim of his ear in its beak, quickly nibbled right round it with the smallest nibbles.

"I shall call him Archie!"

"I trust you will do nothing of the sort," exclaimed Merlyn instantly, in a stern and angry
voice, and the owl withdrew to the farthest corner of his shoulder.

"Is it wrong?"

"You might as well call me Wol, or Olly," said the owl sourly, "and have done with it.

"Or Bubbles," it added in a bitter voice.

Merlyn took the Wart's hand and said kindly, "You are young, and do not understand these
things. But you will learn that owls are the most courteous, single-hearted and faithful
creatures living. You must never be familiar, rude or vulgar with them, or make them look
ridiculous. Their mother is Athene, the goddess of wisdom, and, although they are often
ready to play the buffoon to amuse you, such conduct is the prerogative of the truly wise. No
owl can possibly be called Archie."

"I am sorry, owl," said the Wart.

"And I am sorry, boy," said the owl. "I can see that you spoke in ignorance, and I bitterly
regret that I should have been so petty as to take offence where none was intended."

The owl really did regret it, and looked so remorseful that Merlyn had to put on a cheerful
manner and change the conversation.

"Well," said he, "now that we have finished breakfast, I think it is high time that we should
all three find our way back to Sir Ector.

"Excuse me a moment," he added as an afterthought, and, turning round to the breakfast
things, he pointed a knobbly finger at them and said in a stern voice, "Wash up."

At this all the china and cutlery scrambled down off the table, the cloth emptied the crumbs
out of the window, and the napkins folded themselves up. All ran off down the ladder, to
where Merlyn had left the bucket, and there was such a noise and yelling as if a lot of
children had been let out of school. Merlyn went to the door and shouted, "Mind, nobody is
to get broken." But his voice was entirely drowned in shrill squeals, splashes, and cries of
"My, it is cold," "I shan't stay in long," "Look out, you'll break me," or "Come on, let's duck
the teapot."

"Are you really coming all the way home with me?" asked the Wart, who could hardly
believe the good news.

"Why not? How else can I be your tutor?"

At this the Wart's eyes grew rounder and rounder, until they were about as big as the owl's
who was sitting on his shoulder, and his face got redder and redder, and a breath seemed to
gather itself beneath his heart.

"My!" exclaimed the Wart, while his eyes sparkled with excitement at the discovery. "I must
have been on a Quest!"
